All right.
We have covered position absolute.
We have covered z index.
So I think this would be a great time to look into pseudo elements before and after.
In every practical case pseudo elements start specific parts of the element like for example in the
case of before and after you guessed it before and after the element.
But what's more cool we can insert HCM all dynamically from our shares is essentially allowing us to
avoid extra markup.
Don't believe me.
Why don't we take a look.
And by the way this might be a longer example because we were going to cover multiple other things as
well like smaller things but still important.
First and foremost I would like to get rid of the all the old stuff so I'm going to say all of you guys
gone disappear.
We'll head over back to indexation the email.
We're gonna do a little bit of spring cleaning too.
We're going to say that in the next stage CML we would just want first of all one paragraph that's it.
Nothing really special.
One paragraph on the way here let's write that down on before and after a pseudo pseudo elements just
like the video name.
I'd say it and we have the paragraph now I'm gonna head over back to the CEO says I can first very start
very simply by saying that p and now I'm going to have the colon.
Now what you're going to see maybe be an older syntax is something like this where people just wrote
the name of the element because we are all going to be inserting before or after the paragraph.
And then one colon.
However you should probably stick with a CSF three syntax where you adding two columns.
Again you'll see one colon and technically that is correct.
But I would suggest working with two columns.
And here we're gonna write the first one we've the element before and what's happening next and nothing
is happening technically next but we always need to have the content.
So the content properties should be always there.
Now I'm going to show you example what happens if we don't added.
But first let's just say content then we have the colon.
And now what we would like to write over here.
Well let's say I'm going to write over here.
Hello.
And I'm looking at the space.
And check this out.
Now the moment we're going to save the sea assets we'll see the hell over here.
So that's really neat about the content.
This is very much adding the content in our age the amount we didn't need to add this content.
Don't believe me you can head over back to our browser tools.
We can see the inspection and then as I'm looking at my body and I don't I mean this can say for now
I think it's gonna be fine but if I'm looking at the paragraph notice we're having the day before we
didn't have it here as the markup in the HD email.
However we are able to do that from our CSF which is really really cool.
Again very basic example right now where we can do a lot of interesting features using this now.
What else we can do.
Well we can add whatever CSF we would like or so I can say font let's say Wait you're gonna be bald.
Then we can be looking for font size and say font size to our image or something like that.
So very very massive text as well as maybe let's add colour.
So the colour can be red and I can go on and on and on and actually we will gonna do that because we're
gonna be looking at a little bit more sophisticated examples but to understand the basic idea we can
add some kind of content before and after the content of the paragraph.
Now that is important because if we're looking at the actual browser tools we see that this is before
and after the content and this is going to become important once we're going to talk about images.
So just please remember that Mark what we have next.
Well let's look at the after.
So again the syntax is going to be exactly the same.
And why don't we start the same way where we just look at the content properly.
So I'm going to say content.
And in this case we're just going to write after the Hmong we say it we notice the little laughter so
we know that this is gonna be work.
But what if I would want to insert some kind of box here.
Well at the moment everything is happening in line.
We're seeing that whatever content we were adding this was happily happening in line and that is happening
by default mode of what if I would copy and paste them and let's add it over here too and notice obviously
this is going to be right now on the second line because there's more text more I can bring it back
to the one line because again this is all in line happening but what we can do is we can do this is
display block so I can say it like this instead of display in line I can just change this we can do
a display block text is gonna be red but we can add let's say a background which is gonna be black and
what happens now.
Well we added the content in before and after the paragraph but we can add it as a block.
So I can do the same thing over here and we can copy and paste it and sure enough what's going to happen
is that I'm going to have my paragraph but before and after the content of the paragraph I'm going to
have my pseudo elements and as you're looking and you're like OK well what if I don't want a text.
What if let's say we would want some kind of box.
Mm hmm.
I don't know.
Let's try it out so we can say we're here like this or I'm gonna delete everything that we had here
and we can say this play this is gonna be display block why don't we get rid of the text because let's
say we would just want simple box and more we will can add or here well we can do with maybe 50 pixels
can do height 50 pixels and we can do background I don't know green.
So something like this.
Now what happens.
Well the block is displayed so everything is working fine.
But what if I decide and I say well what is the point of this content if all I want is here the book.
So technically I wanted content only with a hello.
Okay let's test it out I'm gonna come on out and sure enough nothing of this is displayed.
And this is something that I want you to take away that content property even with an empty value is
required.
So whenever you want answered something even though there's not going be a text you do need to have
this property with this kind of value.
Simple enough.
And typically I could just stop here with this example and say that okay we covered everything that
there was at least at this point where is it before and after elements.
But I would like to make a little bit more interesting example where I would kind of want to show you
that how we can use position absolute so we can use the same index and more realistic scenario where
you would use this because at the moment you're probably looking at it and you're like Okay thanks for
telling me.
But that is probably the first and only time that I'm gonna do that where in fact you can use the before
and after.
In a lot of interesting cases.
Now enough of me mapping and let's head over to index H CML and we'll then add one more thing so we're
gonna say here right after the paragraph now you can delete this you can delete the h the imbalance
it says I'm going to leave it just in case.
So you have it for your own explorations later on but I'm going to say here div and I'm going to add
the image.
Now this is important.
So make sure that you're adding the of image because we're all gonna get over this image and just to
give you a hint we're not going to be able to add before and after for the image and again we're going
to cover this in a few seconds but just make sure you have the div and you have the image and also do
that because I would like to show you a few other things how the image is gonna be interacting with
this div and how we're going to use this later on.
Let's start maybe with a I don't know what can do big a major we can do the small image you know what.
Now let's do the big one because I do want to show you the actual responsive images.
So at the moment obviously this image is massive.
We already knew that.
So typically what we would do now we're going to rush back to the US and we're going to right away try
to add whatever property where we would change the width so we could do something like this we could
say image is going to be the width of I don't know 300 and then hope for the best.
The image is going to look like this but while this works and all this is fine there is a better way.
What we're going to use all throughout probably the project will not every single case but you understand
the idea where I'm gonna first work with a div.
So I'm going to say that Dave is going to have some kind of with and in most cases that width is going
to be responsive and then the image is gonna be set responsive to that Dave.
Now how does that work.
Well all I can say Dave since I have the Dave and for the developments that I'm gonna say with off let's
say 50 view widths again we already know this.
This would be the percentages of the screen and then let's add some margin to it let's say margin.
Hundred pixels to a bottom and on the left and right.
So I know that I'm gonna have it here somewhere in the middle.
Now I also like to add maybe a let's say border.
So let's say border to pixels solid just so you can see a few other things later on and solid or not
as always we're going to go with red now OK so we're getting somewhere.
So we have the right now the width of an image with something three hundred.
And then Dave is actually responsive as it is sitting in the center.
However what's happening is you see that the image obviously doesn't fit here so what we can do is with
an image.
So since this is already responsive we can add the hundred percent.
So what's happening right now is the image is gonna be responsive depending on a day of meaning has
I'm going to increase the size of the div.
Also my image is gonna increase because I already set this up with hundred percent.
So if we're gonna be creating some kind of column layout or anything like that this is exactly the syntax
we're gonna be using.
What are you noticing though is that even though the Dave covers nicely left and right and top there's
this space in the bottom and you might be tempted to say well okay so I had the with me and the height
and hopefully for the best everything is gonna work out.
And the moment we say Well nothing changes.
And in order to get rid of this annoying space in between let's say what we're going to have in Dave
as well as the image we're gonna have to make the display property and we're going to strip display
not in line but we're gonna have to display a block and this has nothing to do with before and after
pseudo element.
This has everything to do with how we're gonna be later on working with a Dave and image again and syntax
would be that water.
Let's say some kind of column layout that Dave is gonna be responsive.
Then for Dave I don't think we'll gonna be adding more each and every time but we're gonna be adding
the image within the Dave.
And then the image is gonna be responsive depending on the width of the actual Dave as well as we're
gonna set it as display block.
Now we technically don't have to do it.
We could have avoided that but by showing you this I believe that I'm going save you a little bit of
time because as you're gonna be working with CSX eventually you're gonna have some kind of paragraph.
Let's say hello there or something like this.
And now for sure you're going to have some kind of input.
Now obviously I'm gonna bring my paragraph right now because I already have selected all the paragraphs.
Let me fix this let's say there's gonna be a hearing one and now you're gonna be able to style actually
on the basic selection instead of what would happen if you were going to remove display block.
What you're gonna see there is gonna be this extra margin some extra space and you're gonna be sometimes
real annoyed when you're like listen I'm styling this left and right how I would want but this is not
working.
So in order to get rid of this annoying default margin that you're getting again we would just need
to use display and display a block got nothing to do with zero elements.
Everything has to do with how we're gonna be later on working with our devs and how they're are gonna
be interacting with images within the device market.
So we have covered this one.
Now let me get rid of this water.
We don't need this and now let's decide what we're gonna do.
Well we can start working with before and after.
Now the temptation would be like this.
Well I have the image and I would like to insert something here in between the image so I could just
say image before and let's go for the content and let's start very simply by not content and the content
is gonna be hollow.
Now the moment we say it nothing happens.
And the reason why nothing happens because image element and I'm really shorten that this is obviously
big theory behind this and all that but in general terms image is already the content because again
let me repeat.
And this was the wrong screen.
If we're heading over again to our paragraph we're noticing that this is placed before and after the
count.
Now image tagged by itself the image is the content.
So we're not gonna be able to do that.
Long story short you're not gonna be able to add before and after for your image.
This was one of the reasons why we added the dev because we do want to work with these new developments
now in the process.
I also showed you other things about how the devs with images are gonna be interacting but in general
you're not going to be successful.
So I mean I can repeat this 10 more times but this is not going to work.
So far so good.
We have covered this.
What else we have left.
Well why don't we actually look how we can insert the before and after as we having the dev an image.
Now for the dev is actually very simple.
We do have the content and then say Dev before Hello there buddy.
And what I would like here.
Well I know I need to have the content so I'm going to say content.
And even though there's going to be something else I'm just going to say the empty content.
So what else I would like.
Well I'm gonna say border is gonna be two pixels solid and let's go with grey one.
Okay.
So for now I'm having this guy.
So there's some kind of border.
Okay why don't I make this interesting.
I know that there's some kind of with and there's some kind of height and I know that I have the div
so why don't I make it the with the B not some pixels not some absolute value but also percent as well
as why don't make it height 1 percent.
So I can just say here high 9 percent.
Now the moment we say it then nothing changes.
Okay.
But we already know the position absolute right.
So I can just say position it is gonna be absolute none.
Let's see what happens.
Not relative but absolute.
What happens now.
This is really big.
Okay.
Probably not something that we wanted.
Mm hmm.
What else we can do.
Well we remember that whenever we were working with position absolute.
This was looking for one.
Well for the first ancestor that had what the position of relative because otherwise this is looking
for the body.
That's the reason why this is so massive.
So what would be the solution.
Well we have the answers there.
The answers there would be live.
In this case and what we can do is position and we're looking for relative.
Now what happens is that this is gonna be a hundred percent.
Now you can not be arguing you can say well this is not really hundred percent because what's happening
right now you cannot.
You can see these patients here and the reason for that again is going to be the border box so we can
have box sizing and not Mark's shadow for some reason this is popping up and we will by the way Carol
box shadow.
So that's gonna be covered but if I'm gonna go with Mark sizing is this one.
So right now I'm having the actual border box and what's really cool is that this is exactly like I
would have when I.
So you notice the idea.
So we added this to pixels and now this is gonna be a hundred percent hundred height and then this way
we can start actually doing some more interesting things.
Now what would be the more interesting things.
Well we know that we can place that relative relative obviously to our ancestor and also we can use
the negative values.
Mm hmm.
So how this is gonna work.
So I could say top is gonna be negative 40 pixels so I'm gonna lift that up a little bit as well as
left is gonna be negative 40 pixels.
So where this guy's gonna go.
Well now this is gonna be sitting right here one annoying thing you might be looking at you're like
Yeah well okay it looks kind of cool but why this is covering the image right now.
Well you don't want to go wrong image.
What do we have.
What property we had in Nairobi actually showed you so probably the easy answer would be well z index
right.
So what is the scene next right now for the image.
Now that's actually automatically zero but if I'm gonna make for days gone negative too what happens.
Well now this is gonna be hidden behind them.
So far so good.
Why don't we take a look at the after one and here I'm gonna do something like this.
I'm going to say Dave after Now in this case I would like to copy and paste a lot of them because I
don't want to rewrite them all one by one.
So I'm just gonna say something like this and now let's change the values.
So we have Dave before and after content is this gonna stay the same empty.
However here I'm not gonna be looking for the.
I'm gonna say that there is gonna be actual background so not a border grey but we're gonna say background
great so background is gonna be grey.
Now what is gonna happen here.
Well for now we're gonna cover everything because obviously the width and height is hundred percent
and what we're doing is we're having this top is negative 40.
But I can change this.
I can say top is going to be negative 20 left is gonna be negative 20 as well as let's create a Z in
next little bit smaller.
So this is should be sitting all the way on the back then we're gonna be having this image we're not
image basically block with background on grey and then we having our image.
Okay.
So this probably would be a little bit more interesting example where we can start using again the pseudo
elements before and after.
Probably again not the biggest example that you could see in the world.
Meaning you can use all kinds of other things with pseudo element but at least this would give you like
a little taste where it would be much more interesting than just displaying the block.
Now we can add the block votes.
I mean again there's tons of interesting things we can do.
This is just I think in my opinion more interesting than what we didn't before.
And you don't have to do this along with me because we haven't covered a few of these properties.
But just to show you how this was going to interact with the page I'm gonna add some things we haven't
covered yet again.
You don't have to do them.
I'm gonna leave them in your code so you can maybe actually explore them later on but don't worry about
it again.
We haven't covered them but what I would like to do right now is as I'm hovering I would want these
guys to move.
So how this is gonna work.
Well first of all I'm gonna head over here and again we're going to cover.
We're gonna write something we haven't done yet.
So I'm going to say as I'm hovering the dev I would want.
Before and after to actually move.
So when would say after and I'm gonna copy and paste it one thing we have covered though even though
we don't now understand the selectors yet we have covered that.
We can actually group in together right.
So I can say before and after.
So both of them are going to be selected.
And what I would want.
Well I would want top of them.
These zero left of them to be zero.
And yeah that's gonna be it.
So let me say this.
Okay so what happened.
So as I'm hovering This is actually getting headed now.
We can also add a little bit of transition and again please don't worry about the properties the values
we will gonna cover them as.
Also don't worry about the selector.
This is gonna be covered in few videos but what I can do here is I can say transition and you can do
all zero point five pixels and we're going to write linear and now let me copy and paste this line of
code.
I'm gonna head over here.
Copy and paste it to.
And check this out.
So as I'm hovering now this is happening over zero point five seconds.
Much more color example than what we looked at a simple block and simple text here on the top.
And in general terms this is how you would use the before and after elements.
Just remember again you need to use the content you are not going to be successful using with an image
and you're placing this before and after the actual content of the element not before and after the
element.